# Design-Patterns

Typical design patterns written in C# and dotnet core. Add the neccessary libraries to the console app to view run time.

# Bridge

Decouple abstraction from implementation so that the two can vary independently

## Classes

**Abstraction**
This is an abstract class and containing members that define an abstract business object and its functionality. It contains a reference to an object of type Bridge. It can also act as the base class for other abstractions.

**Redefined Abstraction**
This is a class which inherits from the Abstraction class. It extends the interface defined by Abstraction class.

**IBridge**
This is an interface which acts as a bridge between the abstraction class and implementer classes and also makes the functionality of implementer class independent from the abstraction class.

**ImplementationA**
Implementa the Bridge interface and also provide the implementation details for the associated Abstraction class.

# Adapter

The adapter pattern is a tansational layer that connects two incompatible interfaces togehter

## Classes

**ITarget**
This is an interface which is used by the client to achieve its functionality/request.

**Adapter**
This is a class which implements the ITarget interface and inherits the Adaptee class. It is responsible for communication between Client and Adaptee.

**Adaptee**
This is a class which has the functionality, required by the client. However, its interface is not compatible with the client.

**Client**
This is a class which interacts with a type that implements the ITarget interface. However, the communication class called adaptee, is not compatible with the client

# Builder

A patter which builds a complex object using a step by step approach

## Classes

**Builder**
This is an interface which is used to define all the steps to create a product

**ConcreteBuilder**
This is a class which implements the Builder interface to create a complex product.

**Product**
This is a class which defines the parts of the complex object which are to be generated by the builder pattern.

**Director**
This is a class which is used to construct an object using the Builder interface.


# Factory

A design pattern which creates objects without exposing the creation logic.

# Observer

Update the state of objects which have a common relationship.

## Classes

**Subject**
This is a class that contains a private collection of the observers that are subscribed to a subject for notification by using Notify operation.

**ConcreteSubject**
This is a class that maintains its own state. When a change is made to its state, the object calls the base class's Notify operation to indicate this to all of its observers.

**Observer**
This is an interface which defines an operation Update, which is to be called when the subject's state changes.

**ConcreteObserver**
This is a class that implements the Observer interface and examines the subject to determine which information has changed.


*References*
*https://www.dotnettricks.com/learn/designpatterns*